I want you to hit me as hard as you can
[Music]
this time on movie endings explained
we're going to be looking at something a
little bit different I've often found
that covering films in this series that
don't have some big twist ending to be
even more interesting than those that do
and the film that we're covering this
go-around certainly has a lot of
interesting working parts to completely
unpack the entire film would take a
whole series itself but to focus in on
the final act of this staggering epic
has a certain appeal let's go get this
son of a [ __ ]
[Music]
avenges endgame the quote-unquote
biggest movie of all time exploded on
two screens a year ago becoming a
gargantuan success and thrilling the
world
goosebumps were rippled across the
entire globe as Captain America proved
himself worthy
I knew it tears rolled as Tony Stark
completed his journey from a selfish
egotistical prick to the man who
selflessly sacrificed his life to save
the universe and uproarious laughs
echoed through the cinemas as Korg
informed for that that kid on the TV was
calling him a [ __ ] again okay maybe
that one was just me and that's even
without mentioning the portals ant-man
delivering the most massive punch ever
Captain Marvel no selling a blow from
Thanos Captain America admiring his own
ass Thor realizing he was still worthy
not long after making sure he went for
the head Black Widows moving sacrifice
and the snap heard around the world okay
I'm getting carried away I love this
film but to discuss the ending I'll try
to take a bit more of an impartial look
I'm going to assume that in watching
this video you have seen Avengers
endgame as such I'm not going to recap
the entirety of the film's dense
three-hour story after the shattering
events of infinity war five years to be
precise our remaining heroes travel back
in time through the quantum realm
assemble the Infinity stones and bring
back everyone who was lost in 2018
meanwhile Thanos from an now alternate
2014 has traveled forward in time to
2023 to face off against the Avengers to
take back the Infinity stones he hadn't
even collected yet yeah we'll get to
that and after an incredible battle Tony
uses the Infinity stones to destroy
Thanos and his army he dies and our
heroes mourn the passing of the man that
started it all at least from our
perspective dating back to the film that
kicked off the Marvel Cinematic Universe
Iron Man but the Infinity stones were
taken from points in the past which has
now created new branch realities where
the stones do not exist some of which
will cause terrible new realities so in
order to restore the balance in the
times in which the Avengers took the
stones they all need to be replaced at
the moment they were originally stolen
Steve Rogers opts to return all of the
stones himself at the end of the movie
this is the part we're going to focus on
the most
here the wipers grip all the branches
that clip all the branches common is a
very clever line as for me at least it
ties up any notion of this journey going
wrong the film is over this isn't the
start of a new adventure though it
certainly would have made for an
interesting story
he also very literally speaks to the
idea of the clipping of the branch
realities of which the ancient one spoke
of when she explained to Bruce Banner
how the timelines would be affected if
the stones were taken seconds later
Bucky and Sam spot an old Steve Rogers
sat on a bench nearby it turns out after
he replaced all of the stones he took a
detour and has now lived a life a
beautiful one he passes on the Captain
America mantle and the shield to Sam
while Steve's infinity journey would
make for an interesting story it
probably wouldn't play out the best in a
realized film here's what he would have
had to take back to restore the branched
realities that the time heist created
he'd need to go back to 2012 New York
and returned the scepter which held the
mine stone
the one he himself took and then fought
himself over and you would assume that
2023 Steve Rogers would avoid this
particular confrontation and not get
into a triple threat match with himself
then there's the time stone which he
would need to simply return to the
ancient one
the tesseract however is an altogether
more interesting and entirely more
difficult problem to solve they
initially failed to secure the tesseract
in 2012 with Loki stealing it and
disappearing so Steve and Tony went to
the shield headquarters in 1970 to take
it from an earlier time so 2023 Steve
would need to return it there from the
point in which it was stolen but what
about the 2012 tesseract that Loki stole
which is now created yet another branch
reality well my initial thought was that
Steve had fixed that to sticking around
in 2012 New York long enough to covertly
thwart this theft and keeping the
timeline neat and secure as he said
clipping all the branches that leaves
more open to interpretation than say
I'll clip those five very specific
branches however the upcoming Disney
plus series Loki is set
follow the character from the point in
which he stole the tesseract wreaking
havoc across history how that will
affect the larger Marvel timeline
remains to be seen but it does seem to
confirm that Steve didn't exactly clip
all the branches how much this moment an
endgame will be covered in the Loki
series and how much that series will
impact the MCU moving forward if at all
once again remains to be seen to return
the reality stone Steve would have to go
back to 2013 Asgard and well put the
ether back inside Jane Foster will just
let that sit there for a second and will
move swiftly on maybe this is why it
wouldn't have worked too well on the
screen but hey I'm sure there's a
creative and totally non offensive way
in which that scenario could play out
before leaving Asgard though Steve would
need to return Thor's hammer we can see
that he takes it with him along with the
cool briefcase containing all the stones
in 2023 to leave Thor without his trusty
hammer would surely impact many of the
events that followed Thor the dark world
then Steve would need to return the orb
that contains the power stone to more
rack and at this point I should say that
there's no specific order in which he
needs to do these things but I figured I
would save the most interesting one for
last
finally the soul stone would need to be
returned to warm year this is one moment
that could probably be a very cool
cinematic moments as I'm sure the
reunion of Steve Rogers and Red Skull
the hellish keeper of the stone would be
a very intriguing one there is the
question of whether or not Natasha would
be able to be brought back but the rules
set up imply that a sacrifice made on
Vermeer is irreversible
Hulk even tells Steve that when he
snapped everyone back in 2023 he tried
to include Black Widow but was
unsuccessful there's no going back from
Vermeer with the stones returned reality
as we know it would be pretty much back
to normal but with a few exceptions
firstly when 2023 nebula kills herself
which itself seemingly creates a
grandfather paradox I mean taking the
fact that time travel does not exist and
if you really think about it if it ever
did it's already happened and someone
would have come back anyway
the rules of time-travel have been set
up to be very different in this film
from what we already know which is very
keenly observed in the film itself to be
taken from a litany of popular movies
that employ time travel as a plot device
all of that aside though the grandfather
paradox an idea that if a version of you
was killed in the past you would then
cease to exist
something that Back to the Future
Alliance very closely with is not
applicable to nebulous self murder the
2014 nebula not yet brave enough to turn
against the tyranny of her cruel father
Thanos cannot be swayed by her sister
Gomorrah and the 2023 version of herself
and his shots but the 2014 nebula is now
from a different branch reality where
she left 2014 to travel to 2023 the same
can be said of the Thanos eye heroes
fight at the end of the film he is from
a Thanos hungry for the stones who was
not yet achieved his goal the Thanos we
knew died in 2018 when Thor decapitated
him that remains the same when 2014
Thanos dies at the end of endgame along
with the demise of 2014 nebula a new
branch reality now exists from 2014
slash guardians of the galaxy onwards in
which nebula and Thanos no longer live
inside that casualty of the time-travel
twisting can no longer be undone the
other is the new timeline we see at the
very end of the film Steve Rogers after
successfully restoring most of the
affected timelines takes himself back to
1948 to reunite with the love of his
life Peggy Carter they presumably live
out a long and happy life together
before her death in 2016 and get married
as can be seen on caps ring finger in
2023 but did the old cap we see in 2023
live alongside the same timeline we've
all experienced in the movies over the
past decade the logic set up in the film
would dictate that no he didn't 2023
Steve going back to 1948 to be with
Peggy now creates a new reality in which
there are two Steve Rogers one frozen in
ice for the most part
living a simple life with Peggy and
likely a more private secretive one
wouldn't really affect this new timeline
at all and finally he would return to
the moment he left in 2023 to see Bucky
and Sam and to pass on his shield which
was broken in endgame right which lends
more weight to the idea that old cap is
indeed from a now new if barely
different timeline but then he seemingly
has taken the shield from the main
timeline Captain America at some point
which creates a problem now one of the
writers of the film Christopher Markus
has commented on this paradox and
actually refutes this idea he says we
are not experts on time-travel but the
ancient one specifically states that
when you take an infinity stone out of a
time line it creates a new time line so
Steve going back and just being there
would not create a new time line so I
reject these Steve is in an alternate
reality theory I do believe there is
simply a period in world history from 48
to now where there are two Steve Rogers
and anyway for a large chunk of that one
of them is frozen in ice so it's not
like they'd be running into each other
this is a very intriguing stance and I
don't know if Marcus is specifically
stating that only when an infinity stone
is taken out of a time line does a new
branch reality get created the rules are
definitely blurred with this as the
events of every film post guardians of
the galaxy for the most part would be
completely altered right up to endgame
with the removal of nebula and more
importantly Thanos from the timeline so
clearly the branch reality Theory does
apply to characters being removed from
them and not just Infinity stones
exclusively however Steve going back to
the 40s and living a quiet life with
Peggy wouldn't adversely affect things
and this is the writer of the movie
woods walking bear so the answer here is
old cap is from the same timeline which
to be honest sits a little bit better
with me as the idea of old cap traveling
through time seems a little goofy I mean
he seems like the kind of guy who would
fall over if you sneeze in this
direction even if he is Captain America
but this also raises a question that may
be a convenient retcon or possibly
planned all along though I think that's
really unlikely was Peggy Carter's
husband always Steve Rogers in Winter
Soldier we see Steve visit an elderly
on her deathbed her mind is fading and
it's known that she has a family a
husband and two children if the husband
was not Steve Rogers then he undoubtedly
did create a new branch reality in 1948
I mean she wouldn't go on to meet her
husband and have her children things
have been changed but if the husband is
Steve Rogers then he didn't create a new
timeline the other writer of avenges
endgame Stephen McFeely also commented
on this saying here's how we reconcile
it we think there have always been two
caps from 1945 to say now and we just
didn't know that that's the loop right
you can't alter your future by going
back to the past
so his younger self is on ice somewhere
and it's only in 2011 that there are
technically two steve's running around
to the point where if you were to look
closely at Peggy's funeral there'd be an
old man in the back named Roger Stephens
when he was asked if this means that we
can really see in old Steve Rogers at
the funeral in the movie he clarified
adamantly no which to me sound like
infers this wasn't planned around the
time of civil war but has been retconned
into the timeline the futures of all I
heroes moving forward remain fuzzy but
mostly clear Ironman is rumored to have
a cameo in Black Widow which I don't
personally think is necessary
even if it would be fine in the sense of
the film as a prequel the way Tony was
handled and Spiderman far from home was
perfect he doesn't appear but his impact
post endgame is felt very strongly as it
should
I kind of liked the idea that Robert
Downey jr. 'he's last performance as
Iron Man was this iconic moment which
was the last scene film for the movie
Black Widow will of course get her own
movie the next in line to be released
spider-man has already hit the big
screens again in far from home black
panther 2 is in the works
guardians of the galaxy 3 is coming
which will no doubt have to address the
fact that Gamora is now from 2014 with
none of the experiences we saw her go
through in the first two guardians
movies and infinity war then there's
Thor love and thunder dr. strange in the
multiverse of madness not to mention the
Loki series which will touch on events
from endgame Falcon and the Winter
Soldier which will surely follow Sam's
journey to picking up the mantle Captain
America and Wanda vision which seems to
be existing in its own reality from
everything else we've seen
and that intrigues me more than anything
else the future of Mark Ruffalo's Hulk
and Jeremy Renner's hawkeye seems to be
up in the air at the moment but anything
can happen and could Steve Rogers appear
again in the Marvel Cinematic Universe I
think it's possible and could definitely
work but I think the Avengers endgame
operates best as an operatic epic
conclusion to a 22 movie arc one that
should have never worked and ultimately
achieves their operatic status through
the tragic yet hopeful conclusions of
Steve Rogers and Tony Stark stories the
two have butted heads since the
beginning but both proved to be at their
best when working together Tony went out
on his shield in the only outcome that
was possible to work in defeating Thanos
the most selfish person we know in the
Marvel Cinematic Universe does the most
selfless thing possible and Steve the
soldier that he always wanted to be went
home after the war and unlike most
soldiers he got to live out a whole
other life and one of peace and when we
see Peggy's house at the very end the
front door is just slightly open it's
implied that he's only just turned up
that they have embraced and before
anything else finally had their dance
[Music]
there is no post credit scene and
endgame but you can hear something just
as the credits stop rolling the
unmistakable clanging of metal on metal
Theory sprouted over this but there is
really only one answer
it's Tony Stark building his first Iron
Man suit a tip of the hat to the man and
the moments that started it all